---
layout: post
title: "Ruby Standard Library: Base64"
tags: ruby
---

The `Base64`  module in the Ruby standard library performs encoding and decoding for binary data using a Base64 representation. In one of my [previous](http://127.0.0.1:4000/base64-encoding-explained/) post I investigated how the Base64 algorithm works in C#. Let's try to do the same in Ruby. 

**Why Base64?** 

The `Base64` encoding is a way of representing som binary data in ASCII text. As [this](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/201479/what-is-base-64-encoding-used-for) SO post explains, we can't just stream some binary data over the wire, as it might be interpreted wrongly by a protocol. Hence, it's safe to 

1. convert (encode) it first to ASCII text
2. transfer the ASCII text 
3. convert it back (decode) to the original data. 

As the [RFC](http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc4648.html) states, Base64 encoding of data is also used in many situations to store or transfer data in environments that, perhaps for legacy reasons, are restricted to US-ASCII [1] data.  Base encoding can also be used in new applications that do not have legacy restrictions, simply because it makes it possible to manipulate objects with text editors. 

The purpose of using base64 to encode data is that it translates any binary data into purely printable characters.

**Example**

```ruby
require 'base64'

line = "It's a great time\nto learn Ruby"

# Encode the line
encodedAscii = Base64.encode64(line)

# Output:
# SXQncyBhIGdyZWF0IHRpbWUKdG8gbGVhcm4gUnVieQ==
puts encodedAscii

# Decode the base64 encoded ASCII text
decodedData = Base64.decode64(encodedAscii)

# Output:
# It's a great time
# to learn Ruby
puts decodedData
```

**Under the hood**

This is how the `Base64` module is implemented in the Ruby standard library. This is a stripped-down version to keep things simple and easy to understand. 

```ruby
# lib/base64.rb

module Base64
  def self.encode64(bin)
    [bin].pack("m")
  end
  
  def self.decode64(str)
    str.unpack("m")
  end
end
```

You can see that the `encode64` method just delegates the call to the `pack` method on the Array containing `bin`. So the `Array#pack` and `Array#unpack` perform the actual encoding/decoding of the data. 

According to the [docs](https://ruby-doc.org/core-3.0.0/Array.html#method-i-pack):

> Packs the contents of <i>arr</i> into a binary sequence according to the directives in <i>aTemplateString</i>. 
>
> m: String: base64 encoded string (see RFC 2045)

---

**Side Effects**

While reading the source code for this module, here's what I learned. 

`module_function`

This is part of the `base64.rb` code. 

```ruby
module Base64
  module_function
  
  def encode64(bin)
    ...
  end
  
  # rest of the code
end
```

Notice the `module_function` under the name of the module. I was not sure what it did, but googling a little revealed the [docs](https://ruby-doc.org/core-3.0.1/Module.html#method-i-module_function), and [this](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/32821237/defining-a-module-function-in-ruby) SO post. Here's the gist of what this does. 

> Creates module functions for the named methods. These functions may be called with the module as a receiver, and also become available as instance methods to classes that mix in the module. 
>
> If used with no arguments, subsequently defined methods become module functions. 

So the code is calling `module_function` before the other methods so you can call them as `Base64.encode64(str)`. 

However, it looks like you can simply achieve this using the `self` keyword on the method. 

```ruby
module Base64
  
  def self.encode64(bin)
    ...
  end
  
  # rest of the code
end
```

Personally, I prefer the second syntax. 
